Refactor README.md and include Approximate Equality as part of the RealModule. (#150)
apple/swift-numerics: README.md

# Swift Numerics
  
## Introduction

> Swift Numerics provides a set of modules that support numerical computing in Swift. These modules fall broadly into two categories:

Reviewer: While we don't want to wrap, we _do_ want one sentence per line.
```suggestion
Swift Numerics provides a set of modules that support numerical computing in Swift.
These modules fall broadly into two categories:
```

Reviewer 2: Agreed. The proposed change looks good - will incorporate, thanks @stephentyrone

- API that is too specialized to go into the standard library, but which is sufficiently general to be centralized in a single common package.
- API that is under active development toward possible future inclusion in the standard library.

> There is some overlap between these two categories, and an API that begins in the first category may migrate into the second as it matures and more users start using Swift Numerics.

Reviewer 2: Originally: "...and new uses are discovered." was 100% good. Let's revert here

> Swift Numerics modules are fine-grained. For example, if you need support for Complex numbers, you can import ComplexModule¹ as a standalone module:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Swift Numerics modules are fine-grained.
For example, if you need support for Complex numbers, you can import ComplexModule¹ as a standalone module:
```

Reviewer 2: Thanks @stephentyrone - moving this sentence to the next paragraph LGTM

Reviewer: To be clear, this is _not_ a new paragraph. New paragraphs only occur in markdown on a double line break.

Reviewer 2: @stephentyrone Got it!

```swift
import ComplexModule

let z = Complex<Double>.i
```

There is also a top-level `Numerics` module that re-exports the complete public interface of Swift Numerics:

```swift
import Numerics

// The entire Swift Numerics API is now available
```

Swift Numerics modules have minimal dependencies on other projects.

The current modules assume only the availability of the Swift and C standard libraries and the runtime support provided by compiler-rt.

> Future expansion may assume the availability of other standard interfaces, such as [BLAS (Basic Linear Algebra Subprograms)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Basic_Linear_Algebra_Subprograms) and [LAPACK (Linear Algebra Package)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/LAPACK). But modules with more specialized dependencies (or dependencies that are not available on all platforms supported by Swift) belong in a separate package.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Future expansion may assume the availability of other standard interfaces, such as [BLAS (Basic Linear Algebra Subprograms)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Basic_Linear_Algebra_Subprograms) and [LAPACK (Linear Algebra Package)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/LAPACK).
But modules with more specialized dependencies (or dependencies that are not available on all platforms supported by Swift) belong in a separate package.
```

Reviewer 2: 👍 @stephentyrone Will make this change

Because we intend to make it possible to adopt Swift Numerics modules in the standard library at some future point, Swift Numerics uses the same license and contribution guidelines as the Swift project.

## Using Swift Numerics in your project

To use Swift Numerics in a SwiftPM project:

1. Add the following line to the dependencies in your `Package.swift` file:

```swift
.package(url: "https://github.com/apple/swift-numerics", from: "0.0.7"),
```

2. Add `Numerics` as a dependency for your target:

```swift
.target(name: "MyTarget", dependencies: [
  .product(name: "Numerics", package: "swift-numerics"),
  "AnotherModule"
]),
```

3. Add `import Numerics` in your source code.

## Contributing to Swift Numerics

> Swift Numerics is a standalone library that is separate from the core Swift project. In practice, it will act as a staging ground for some APIs that may eventually be incorporated into the Swift Standard Library. When that happens, such changes will be proposed to the Swift Standard Library using the established evolution process of the Swift project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Swift Numerics is a standalone library that is separate from the core Swift project, but it will sometimes act as a staging ground for APIs that will later be incorporated into the Swift Standard Library.
When that happens, such changes will be proposed to the Swift Standard Library using the established evolution process of the Swift project.
```

Reviewer 2: Agree with the rewording and splitting into more paragraphs 👍 Will make these changes

### How to propose a new feature for an existing module

1. Raise an issue with the [enhancement] tag.
2. Raise a PR with your implementation, and discuss the implementation there.
3. Once there is a consensus that the new feature is desirable and the design is suitable, it can be merged.

### How to fix a bug, or make smaller improvements

1. Raise a PR with your change. 
2. Make sure to add test coverage for whatever changes you are making.

### Forums

Questions about how to use Swift Numerics modules, or issues that are not clearly bugs can be discussed in the ["Swift Numerics" section of the Swift forums](https://forums.swift.org/c/related-projects/swift-numerics).

## Modules

1. About [`RealModule`](Sources/RealModule/README.md)
2. About [`ComplexModule`](Sources/ComplexModule/README.md)

## Future expansion

1. [Large Fixed-Width Integers](https://github.com/apple/swift-numerics/issues/4)
2. [Arbitrary-Precision Integers](https://github.com/apple/swift-numerics/issues/5)
3. [Shaped Arrays](https://github.com/apple/swift-numerics/issues/6)
4. [Decimal Floating-point](https://github.com/apple/swift-numerics/issues/7)

## Notes

> ¹ Swift is currently unable to use the fully-qualified name for types when a type and module have the same name (discussion here: https://forums.swift.org/t/pitch-fully-qualified-name-syntax/28482). This would prevent users of Swift Numerics who don't need generic types from doing things, such as:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
¹ Swift is currently unable to use the fully-qualified name for types when a type and module have the same name (discussion here: https://forums.swift.org/t/pitch-fully-qualified-name-syntax/28482).
This would prevent users of Swift Numerics who don't need generic types from doing things, such as:
```

Reviewer 2: 👍👍

```swift
import Complex
// I know I only ever want Complex<Double>, so I shouldn't need the generic parameter.
typealias Complex = Complex.Complex<Double> // This doesn't work, because name lookup fails.
```

For this reason, modules that would have this ambiguity are suffixed with `Module` within Swift Numerics:

```swift
import ComplexModule
// I know I only ever want Complex<Double>, so I shouldn't need the generic parameter.
typealias Complex = ComplexModule.Complex<Double>
// But I can still refer to the generic type by qualifying the name if I need it occasionally:
let a = ComplexModule.Complex<Float>
```

> The `Real` module does not contain a `Real` type, but does contain a `Real` protocol, and users may want to define their own `Real` type (and possibly re-export the `Real` module) - that is why the suffix is also applied there. New modules have to evaluate this decision carefully, but can err on the side of adding the suffix. It's expected that most users will simply `import Numerics`, so this isn't an issue for them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `Real` module does not contain a `Real` type, but does contain a `Real` protocol.
Users may want to define their own `Real` type (and possibly re-export the `Real` module)--that is why the suffix is also applied there.
New modules have to evaluate this decision carefully, but can err on the side of adding the suffix.
It's expected that most users will simply `import Numerics`, so this isn't an issue for them.
```

Reviewer 2: 👍👍 Thanks @stephentyrone

- API that is under active development toward possible future inclusion in the standard library.

There is some overlap between these two categories, and an API that begins in the first category may migrate into the second as it matures and new uses are discovered.

Swift Numerics modules are fine-grained.
For example, if you need support for Complex numbers, you can import ComplexModule¹ as a standalone module:

```swift
import ComplexModule

let z = Complex<Double>.i
```

There is also a top-level `Numerics` module that re-exports the complete public interface of Swift Numerics:

```swift
import Numerics

// The entire Swift Numerics API is now available
```

Swift Numerics modules have minimal dependencies on other projects.

The current modules assume only the availability of the Swift and C standard libraries and the runtime support provided by compiler-rt.

Future expansion may assume the availability of other standard interfaces, such as [BLAS (Basic Linear Algebra Subprograms)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Basic_Linear_Algebra_Subprograms) and [LAPACK (Linear Algebra Package)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/LAPACK).

> But modules with more specialized dependencies (or dependencies that are not available on all platforms supported by Swift) belong in a separate package.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
, but modules with more specialized dependencies (or dependencies that are not available on all platforms supported by Swift) belong in a separate package.
```

Reviewer 2: Thanks for reviewing @xwu, appreciate it. If you think it's important to have this section as one long sentence, I can definitely make this change!

I noticed that in GitHub's web UI, the whole paragraph takes up three lines. If we merge these sentences, they become a one long thing spanning three lines:

<img width="500" alt="image" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/19637339/92313384-2b292780-efc3-11ea-8848-93309819c8ab.png">

---

Here's the reasoning behind simplifying a large sentence into two shorter ones (these are guidelines, not rules):

From Google Technical Writing - [Short sentences](https://developers.google.com/tech-writing/one/short-sentences):

> "Shorter documentation reads faster than longer documentation."
> 
> "Finding the shortest documentation implementation takes time but is ultimately worthwhile. Short sentences communicate more powerfully than long sentences, and short sentences are usually easier to understand than long sentences."

From Microsoft Style Guide - [Writing Tips](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/style-guide/global-communications/writing-tips):

> "These practices will help localizers and customers.
> "Write short, simple sentences. Punctuating a sentence with more than a few commas and end punctuation usually indicates a complex sentence. Consider rewriting it or breaking it into multiple sentences."

https://developers.google.com/tech-writing/one/short-sentences

Reviewer 3: This is one thought, not two, so it needs to be one sentence.

Reviewer 2: Ok @xwu! Will make the changes

3. Once there is a consensus that the new feature is desirable and the design is suitable, it can be merged.

### How to fix a bug, or make smaller improvements

1. Raise a PR with your change. 
2. Make sure to add test coverage for whatever changes you are making.

### Forums

Questions about how to use Swift Numerics modules, or issues that are not clearly bugs can be discussed in the ["Swift Numerics" section of the Swift forums](https://forums.swift.org/c/related-projects/swift-numerics).

## Modules

1. [`RealModule`](Sources/RealModule/README.md)
2. [`ComplexModule`](Sources/ComplexModule/README.md)

## Future expansion

1. [Large Fixed-Width Integers](https://github.com/apple/swift-numerics/issues/4)
2. [Arbitrary-Precision Integers](https://github.com/apple/swift-numerics/issues/5)
3. [Shaped Arrays](https://github.com/apple/swift-numerics/issues/6)
4. [Decimal Floating-point](https://github.com/apple/swift-numerics/issues/7)

## Notes

¹ Swift is currently unable to use the fully-qualified name for types when a type and module have the same name (discussion here: https://forums.swift.org/t/pitch-fully-qualified-name-syntax/28482).

> This would prevent users of Swift Numerics who don't need generic types from doing things, such as:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This would prevent users of Swift Numerics who don't need generic types from doing things such as:
```

Reviewer 2: Got it @xwu Thanks!

# Swift Numerics
  
## Introduction

Swift Numerics provides a set of modules that support numerical computing in
Swift. These modules fall broadly into two categories:

- API that is too specialized to go into the standard library, but which is
  sufficiently general to be centralized in a single common package.
- API that is under active development toward possible future inclusion in the
  standard library.

There is some overlap between these two categories, and API that begins in the
first category may migrate into the second as it matures and more users start
using Swift Numerics.

Swift Numerics modules are fine-grained. For example, if you need support for
Complex numbers, you can import ComplexModule¹ as a standalone module:

```swift
import ComplexModule

let z = Complex<Double>.i
```

There is also a top-level `Numerics` module that re-exports the complete public
interface of swift-numerics:

```swift
import Numerics

> // The entire `swift-numerics` API is now available

Reviewer: `swift-numerics` doesn't seem to be appropriate formatting here; "swift-numerics" is not code. In prose we usually style the project "Swift Numerics".

Reviewer 2: Agreed, thanks @stephentyrone

```

Swift Numerics modules have minimal dependencies on other projects.

The current modules assume only the availability of the Swift and C standard libraries and the runtime support provided by compiler-rt.

Future expansion may assume the availability of other standard interfaces, such
as [BLAS (Basic Linear Algebra
Subprograms)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Basic_Linear_Algebra_Subprograms)
and [LAPACK (Linear Algebra Package)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/LAPACK). But
modules with more specialized dependencies (or dependencies that are not
available on all platforms supported by Swift) belong in a separate package.

> The Swift Numerics project is intended to be adopted in the standard library

Reviewer: I'm actually the project owner, and @xwu is correct, the original text is correct, and this suggested change is not. There will surely be some components of Swift Numerics that never make their way into the standard library.

> The Swift Numerics project is intended to be adopted in the standard library

Reviewer 2: Sounds good!

> The Swift Numerics project is intended to be adopted in the standard library

Reviewer 2: I'll revert these changes back @stephentyrone - commit coming up @markuswntr.

Thanks for the feedback!

> The Swift Numerics project is intended to be adopted in the standard library

Reviewer 2: Thanks @markuswntr for making the changes and @stephentyrone and @xwu for the feedback!

Swift Numerics uses GitHub issues to track bugs and features. We use pull
requests for development.

### How to propose a new module

1. Raise an issue with the [new module] tag.
2. Raise a PR with an implementation sketch.
3. Once you have some consensus, ask an admin to create a feature branch against
   which PRs can be raised.
4. When the design has stabilized and is functional enough to be useful, raise a
   PR to merge the new module to master.

### How to propose a new feature for an existing module

1. Raise an issue with the [enhancement] tag.
2. Raise a PR with your implementation, and discuss the implementation there.
3. Once there is a consensus that the new feature is desirable and the design is
   suitable, it can be merged.

### How to fix a bug, or make smaller improvements

1. Raise a PR with your change. 
2. Make sure to add test coverage for whatever changes you are making.

### Forums

Questions about how to use Swift Numerics modules, or issues that are not
clearly bugs can be discussed in the ["Swift Numerics" section of the Swift
forums](https://forums.swift.org/c/related-projects/swift-numerics).

## Modules

> 1. About [`RealModule`](Sources/RealModule/README.md)

Reviewer: I don't think "About" adds any clarity here (it actually confuses it). This is a list of modules, and the module is not "About RealModule" it is "RealModule".

Reviewer 2: @stephentyrone Sounds good! Maybe we can have the title of the section named "# More on modules" or something along those lines? What each link is about/does can be quite important to increase clarity, better a11y, etc. WDYT?

Reviewer 3: I think the heading is fine as-is. It is a list of modules, not a section “on modules.”

Reviewer 2: I am just trying to follow commonly accepted guidelines of tech writing for good docs. 

The idea in our case is to help any user - whether they're new to Swift or Swift Numerics - to understand whether they should click on each link (this is part of the user experience/human-computer interface fields). So, in a way, this contributes to inclusiveness and accessibility, which are important to keep in mind when writing doc specs.

A few words with basic info can save readers a trip to an external site that may not want to go to (as per the Google style guide, as I couldn't find any relevant info on Microsoft or Apple's guides).

- For instance, this shows it's a README and I'd probably click on it, since READMEs are mostly common knowledge:

```
[`RealModule` - README](Sources/RealModule/README.md)
```

```
[About `RealModule`](Sources/RealModule/README.md)
```

- Compare this the original, where it's not too clear whether the user, who hasn't spent as much time with Swift Numerics as us, should click on the link. (Is it an API doc, a `.swift` file, a blog post, or an official Apple reference?)

```
[`RealModule`](Sources/RealModule/README.md)
```

Anyway, these are just suggestions. Maybe Apple's tech writers can help here.

Cheers!

>     - [`ApproximateEquality`](Sources/RealModule/ApproximateEquality.swift)

Reviewer: We should definitely link to detail on ApproximateEquality, but we should link to a markdown document, rather than the implementation. Let's remove this for now and open an issue to track adding one.

Author: Thanks! I removed the link and opened an issue: https://github.com/apple/swift-numerics/issues/153

2. About [`ComplexModule`](Sources/ComplexModule/README.md)

## Future expansion

1. [Large Fixed-Width Integers](https://github.com/apple/swift-numerics/issues/4)
2. [Arbitrary-Precision Integers](https://github.com/apple/swift-numerics/issues/5)
3. [Shaped Arrays](https://github.com/apple/swift-numerics/issues/6)
4. [Decimal Floating-point](https://github.com/apple/swift-numerics/issues/7)

## Notes

¹ Swift is currently unable to use the fully-qualified name for types when a
type and module have the same name (discussion here:
https://forums.swift.org/t/pitch-fully-qualified-name-syntax/28482). This would
prevent users of Swift Numerics who don't need generic types from doing things,
such as:

```swift
import Complex

> // You only ever want Complex<Double>, so you shouldn't need the generic parameter.

Reviewer 2: If we can use the second person ("you" - the reader/user) in docs instead of the first person ("I" and "we"), we should do so, according to Google and Microsoft style guides for doc writing. That's the reason for changing it here.

> // You only ever want Complex<Double>, so you shouldn't need the generic parameter.

Reviewer 3: I think @stephentyrone’s point here is that the comment here is _not_ being written in the voice of the documentation writer, and what’s more essentially, _should not_ be expressed in those terms, since it is demonstrating particulars and not providing general advice.

> // You only ever want Complex<Double>, so you shouldn't need the generic parameter.

Reviewer 2: @xwu @stephentyrone Gotcha! Agreed
